paperID	obsID	obsDescript	location	ecosystCat	ecosystDescript	studyType	obsMeasNote	obsCovNote	obsTraitNote	obsSpNote	GOBACK?4	4.01	invaded comparison = transition	"Cheboygan Marsh, MI, USA"	wetland	freshwater wetland	field study	"3 0.5m2 plots were established in 3 vegetation types: a) native, Typha (invaded), and transition zones (invaded). 5 soil samples were collected from each vegetation zone (10cm depth)."	Estimated biomass with stem counts and heights	NA	NA	No4	4.02	invaded comparison = Typha	"Cheboygan Marsh, MI, USA"	wetland	freshwater wetland	field study	"3 0.5m2 plots were established in 3 vegetation types: a) native, Typha (invaded), and transition zones (invaded). 5 soil samples were collected from each vegetation zone (10cm depth)."	Estimated biomass with stem counts and heights	NA	NA	No5	5.01	NA	"Long Island, NY, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	field study	"Sampled an invaded and native plot in 2 preserves.  Invaded plots had many invasive species. 7 soil samples were collected per plot (10cm depth). For this meta-analysis, I chose to keep this a one observation; I did not split data from the 2 preserves into two observations because samples taken within the plots are described as pseudoreps."	NA	Leaf tissue N% of 2 native species common to all sites - Prunus and Viburnum. Based on 3 leaves of litter.	NA	Email authors for more specific cover data6	6.01	dry season	"Molakai Island, HI, USA"	shrubland	moist shrubland	field study	"3 adjacent 2500m2 areas: a) intact natives, b) mosaic, c) monospecific invasion. Sampled soil during the dry and wet season (2 observations?).  25 2-diameter shrub plots per native and invaded area. Pooled 3 cores per plot."	NA	Fresh and abscised leaves were sampled in each plot for C and N content	"Many native species listed, not all species have corresponding cover estimates in text"	Consider aggregating dry and wet season observation data6	6.02	wet season	"Molakai Island, HI, USA"	shrubland	moist shrubland	field study	"3 adjacent 2500m2 areas: a) intact natives, b) mosaic, c) monospecific invasion. Sampled soil during the dry and wet season (2 observations?).  25 2-diameter shrub plots per native and invaded area. Pooled 3 cores per plot."	NA	Fresh and abscised leaves were sampled in each plot for C and N content	"Many native species listed, not all species have corresponding cover estimates in text"	Consider aggregating dry and wet season observation data12	12.01	invaded comparison = recently invaded	"Canyonlands National Park, UT, USA"	grassland	semi-arid desert	field study	"Established 3 replicate plots in 3 vegetation types: a) not invaded (native), b) recently invaded (invaded), and c) historically invaded (invaded). Vegetation cover by species was measured with 25-0.25m2 quadrats within each of the 9 plots.  Soil samples (10cm depth) taken under vegetation in those quadrats."	Only 1 dominant native species listed.  Assume that native cover is equal to the cover of that species	NA	NA	No12	12.02	invaded comparison = historically invaded	"Canyonlands National Park, UT, USA"	grassland	semi-arid desert	field study	"Established 3 replicate plots in 3 vegetation types: a) not invaded (native), b) recently invaded (invaded), and c) historically invaded (invaded). Vegetation cover by species was measured with 25-0.25m2 quadrats within each of the 9 plots.  Soil samples (10cm depth) taken under vegetation in those quadrats."	Only 1 dominant native species listed.  Assume that native cover is equal to the cover of that species	NA	NA	No15	15.01	native comparison = Artemisia	"Curlew Valley, UT, USA"	grassland	desert shrub-steppe	field study	"Sampled under 3 vegetation types: a) Bromus (invasive), b) Artemisia (native), and c) Elymus (native) (3 observations). Soil sampled in spring and fall. Insitu core N minz in fall and gross mineralization evaluated in spring."	NA	NA	"Many native species listed, not all species have corresponding cover estimates in text"	No15	15.02	native comparison = Elymus	"Curlew Valley, UT, USA"	grassland	desert shrub-steppe	field study	"Sampled under 3 vegetation types: a) Bromus (invasive), b) Artemisia (native), and c) Elymus (native) (3 observations). Soil sampled in spring and fall. Insitu core N minz in fall and gross mineralization evaluated in spring."	NA	NA	"Many native species listed, not all species have corresponding cover estimates in text"	No25	25.01	"location = MNHP, invaded comparison = Berberis, studyType = field study"	"Morristown National Historic Park, NJ, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	field study	"Sampled under 3 clumps of plants from 3 sampling locations.  Soil samples (0-5cm) were taken from beneath the canopies of plants and sampled in March, June.  Buried bag N minz incubation for 3 weeks. Estimated standing crop biomass and tissue N content, and litter decomposition."	Evaluated the number of stems per m2 of the species in the study plots.  Invader is provided in percent cover since stems are difficult to quantify.	"Tree litter N content, shrub and invader N content in live plant and litter material"	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10.  See Table 1 'other species' for more understory species. Same native species listed for all locations."	Consider aggregating by location25	25.02	"location = ALL, invaded comparison = Berberis, studyType = field study"	"ALL, NJ, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	field study	"Sampled under 3 clumps of plants from 3 sampling locations.  Soil samples (0-5cm) were taken from beneath the canopies of plants and sampled in March, June.  Buried bag N minz incubation for 3 weeks. Estimated standing crop biomass and tissue N content, and litter decomposition."	Evaluated the number of stems per m2 of the species in the study plots.  Invader is provided in percent cover since stems are difficult to quantify.	"Tree litter N content, shrub and invader N content in live plant and litter material"	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10.  See Table 1 'other species' for more understory species. Same native species listed for all locations."	Consider aggregating by location25	25.03	"location = WOR, invaded comparison = Berberis, studyType = field study"	"WOR, NJ, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	field study	"Sampled under 3 clumps of plants from 3 sampling locations.  Soil samples (0-5cm) were taken from beneath the canopies of plants and sampled in March, June.  Buried bag N minz incubation for 3 weeks. Estimated standing crop biomass and tissue N content, and litter decomposition."	Evaluated the number of stems per m2 of the species in the study plots.  Invader is provided in percent cover since stems are difficult to quantify.	"Tree litter N content, shrub and invader N content in live plant and litter material"	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10.  See Table 1 'other species' for more understory species. Same native species listed for all locations."	Consider aggregating by location25	25.04	"location = MNHP, invaded comparison = Microstegium, studyType = field study"	"Morristown National Historic Park, NJ, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	field study	"Sampled under 3 clumps of plants from 3 sampling locations.  Soil samples (0-5cm) were taken from beneath the canopies of plants and sampled in March, June.  Buried bag N minz incubation for 3 weeks. Estimated standing crop biomass and tissue N content, and litter decomposition."	Evaluated the number of stems per m2 of the species in the study plots.  Invader is provided in percent cover since stems are difficult to quantify.	"Tree litter N content, shrub and invader N content in live plant and litter material"	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10.  See Table 1 'other species' for more understory species. Same native species listed for all locations."	Consider aggregating by location25	25.05	"location = WOR, invaded comparison = Microstegium, studyType = field study"	"WOR, NJ, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	field study	"Sampled under 3 clumps of plants from 3 sampling locations.  Soil samples (0-5cm) were taken from beneath the canopies of plants and sampled in March, June.  Buried bag N minz incubation for 3 weeks. Estimated standing crop biomass and tissue N content, and litter decomposition."	Evaluated the number of stems per m2 of the species in the study plots.  Invader is provided in percent cover since stems are difficult to quantify.	"Tree litter N content, shrub and invader N content in live plant and litter material"	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10.  See Table 1 'other species' for more understory species. Same native species listed for all locations."	Consider aggregating by location25	25.06	"location = ALL, invaded comparison = Berberis and Microstegium grown together, studyType = greenhouse expt"	"ALL, NJ, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	greenhouse expt	Planted the 2 invasive species or the native species in field-collected uninvaded soil (n=5). Lab N minz with 10day incubation.	NA	Field-collected shrub and invader N content in live plant and litter material	NA	Consider including unplanted as native comparison25	25.07	"location = WOR, invaded comparison = Berberis and Microstegium grown together, studyType = greenhouse expt"	"WOR, NJ, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	greenhouse expt	Planted the 2 invasive species or the native species in field-collected uninvaded soil (n=5). Lab N minz with 10day incubation.	NA	Field-collected shrub and invader N content in live plant and litter material	NA	Consider including unplanted as native comparison29	29.01	invaded comparison = mixed	"Montezuma National Wildlife Refuge, NY, USA"	wetland	freshwater wetland	field study	"Established 5 parallel transects through 3 vegetation types: a) Typha (native), mixed (invaded), and Lythrum (invaded). Each transect had 1-1m2 plot for vegetation sampling and an adjacent 1m2 plot for soil sampling per vegetation type (n=5). Used insitu core incubation for 1 month in Jun, Jul, Aug (20cm depth)."	Aboveground biomass was estimated by multiplying mean shoot weight (live and dead) by shoot density per plot	Measurements taken on greenhouse-grown plant tissue %N for Lythrum and Typha	NA	No29	29.02	invaded comparison = Lythrum	"Montezuma National Wildlife Refuge, NY, USA"	wetland	freshwater wetland	field study	"Established 5 parallel transects through 3 vegetation types: a) Typha (native), mixed (invaded), and Lythrum (invaded). Each transect had 1-1m2 plot for vegetation sampling and an adjacent 1m2 plot for soil sampling per vegetation type (n=5). Used insitu core incubation for 1 month in Jun, Jul, Aug (20cm depth)."	Aboveground biomass was estimated by multiplying mean shoot weight (live and dead) by shoot density per plot	Measurements taken on greenhouse-grown plant tissue %N for Lythrum and Typha	NA	No30	30.01	NA	"Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, HI, USA"	forest	rainforest	field study	Soil (0-10cm depth) colleccted beneath invasive species in 4 invaded plots and in 4 native plots.  Buried bag soil incubation for 10 days.	NA	Green and senescent leaves were collected from invasive species and 2 canopy native species in fertilized and unfertilized plots	NA	No36	36.01	native comparison = Lupinus	"Mendocino Co., CA, USA"	grassland	grassland	field expt addition	"Included a root ingrowth treatment that showed no response, which doubled sample size to n = 10"	"Plants grown in buried steel drums and maintained with annual reseeding and weeding, n=5"	NA	NA	No36	36.02	native comparison = Nassella	"Mendocino Co., CA, USA"	grassland	grassland	field expt addition	"Included a root ingrowth treatment that showed no response, which doubled sample size to n = 10"	"Plants grown in buried steel drums and maintained with annual reseeding and weeding, n=5"	NA	NA	No38	38.01	location = Lake Avenue Woods	"IL, USA"	forest	temperate forest	field study	"Established 3 plots of invaded and native at 3 sites: a) LA, b) MAE, and c) McD (3 observations). Soil collected in Sept.  Used 28-day lab incubation for nminz."	"Authors say that the understory tends to be depauparate and the canopy is less open where there is an invasion.  The authors do not quantify this, so for the purpose of this meta-analysis, I assume that native cover is 100% in both native and invaded areas."	NA	NA	No38	38.02	location = Morton Arboretum East	"IL, USA"	forest	temperate forest	field study	"Established 3 plots of invaded and native at 3 sites: a) LA, b) MAE, and c) McD (3 observations). Soil collected in Sept.  Used 28-day lab incubation for nminz."	"Authors say that the understory tends to be depauparate and the canopy is less open where there is an invasion.  The authors do not quantify this, so for the purpose of this meta-analysis, I assume that native cover is 100% in both native and invaded areas."	NA	NA	No38	38.03	location = McDonald Woods	"IL, USA"	forest	temperate forest	field study	"Established 3 plots of invaded and native at 3 sites: a) LA, b) MAE, and c) McD (3 observations). Soil collected in Sept.  Used 28-day lab incubation for nminz."	"Authors say that the understory tends to be depauparate and the canopy is less open where there is an invasion.  The authors do not quantify this, so for the purpose of this meta-analysis, I assume that native cover is 100% in both native and invaded areas."	NA	NA	No40	40.01	location = LL	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No40	40.02	location = GO	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No40	40.03	location = CC	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No40	40.04	location = RC	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No40	40.05	location = BC 	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No40	40.06	location = BE	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No40	40.07	location = HY	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No40	40.08	location = B2	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No40	40.09	location = HE	"western MT, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established 6 paired invaded and native plots per site, 9 sites (9 observations). Sampled 3 soil cores (0-5cm depth) per plot and pooled them. Nminz with lab incubation for 7 days and used IER bags at 3 sites (5cm depth) in August for a 4-6 week incubation."	"Plant cover was not measured, so for this meta-analysis the plant cover estimates do not differ between sites"	Paper presents unpublished trait values in the discussion section for leaf%N and C:N	Species list was not differentiated for the 9 sites	No41	41.01	invaded comparison = Bromus	"Great Valley Grasslands State Park, CA, USA"	grassland	grassland and riparian woodland	field study	"Soil sampled from 5 microhabitat types: a) Sporobolus (SA, native), b) Horeum (HMG, invaded), c) Bromus (BD, invaded), d) gopher mounds (GM), and e) salt sears. 8 soil cores (0-5 cm depth) per microhabitat. SA soils collected in 1996, all others collected in 1999. Units not provided for inorganic N data."	NA	NA	NA	No41	41.02	invaded comparison = Horeum	"Great Valley Grasslands State Park, CA, USA"	grassland	grassland and riparian woodland	field study	"Soil sampled from 5 microhabitat types: a) Sporobolus (SA, native), b) Horeum (HMG, invaded), c) Bromus (BD, invaded), d) gopher mounds (GM), and e) salt sears. 8 soil cores (0-5 cm depth) per microhabitat. SA soils collected in 1996, all others collected in 1999. Units not provided for inorganic N data."	NA	NA	NA	No48	48.01	invaded comparison = NA-EXOT	"Neilingding Island National Nature Research Forest, China"	forest	subtropical forest	field study	"Established 5 plots per vegetation type: a) native, b) NA-EXOT (invaded), c) EX-EXOT (invaded), and d) EXOT (3 observations). Soil was sampled by pooling 3 cores per plot (10cm depth) and sampled in August."	Invasive species cover estimated in 25-1m2 quadrats per vegetation type.	NA	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10.  See text for more vine species, and species that appear in invaded plots"	No48	48.02	invaded comparison = EX-EXOT	"Neilingding Island National Nature Research Forest, China"	forest	subtropical forest	field study	"Established 5 plots per vegetation type: a) native, b) NA-EXOT (invaded), c) EX-EXOT (invaded), and d) EXOT (3 observations). Soil was sampled by pooling 3 cores per plot (10cm depth) and sampled in August."	Invasive species cover estimated in 25-1m2 quadrats per vegetation type.	NA	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10.  See text for more vine species, and species that appear in invaded plots"	No48	48.03	invaded comparison = EXOT	"Neilingding Island National Nature Research Forest, China"	forest	subtropical forest	field study	"Established 5 plots per vegetation type: a) native, b) NA-EXOT (invaded), c) EX-EXOT (invaded), and d) EXOT (3 observations). Soil was sampled by pooling 3 cores per plot (10cm depth) and sampled in August."	Invasive species cover estimated in 25-1m2 quadrats per vegetation type.	NA	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10.  See text for more vine species, and species that appear in invaded plots"	No53	53.01	"NA; Note: soil data is presented for each site separately, but each site has just 1 pair of native and invaded plots, so sites need to be aggregated in this study"	"New South Wales, Australia"	shrubland	foredune shrublands	field study	"12 sample transects were taken through each plot in spring and summer.  For N analyses, these samples were pooled into 4 samples. In total, there were 4 sites, each with an invaded and native plot (30x30m) and 4 litter samples per plot."	NA	"Fully expanded and recently abscissed leaves of 4 spp were collected from each field site, pooled by spp into 2 samples"	NA	No58	58.01	NA	"Konza Prairie, KS, USA"	grassland	tallgrass prairie	field study	"4 invaded 'islands' within grass matrix were selected. Transect 5 m into invasion and 5 m into grasses.  2 1m2 plots in each vegetation type: grasses (native), grass/shrub (intermediate invaded), only 1 plot in shrub (invaded). N minz with buried soil core 4 times during the growing season and 1 time during the winter (61 and 41 day incubations, respectively). Shrub and shrub/grassland plot were pooled by the author"	NA	NA	NA	No59	59.01	invaded comparison = cluster	"La Copita Research Area, TX, USA"	grassland	subtropical grassland savanna	field study	"6 plots of each community type: a) grassland (native), b) cluster (invaded), c) grove (invaded), d) woodland (invaded). Soil samples (0-10cm, 10-20cm) were taken in July and Jan. Lab N minz incubations for 10days."	NA	Quantified litter C and N%.  No litterpercN or littercn provided for grassland.	"For more details on the plant communities see Archer 1995, Boutton et al 1998"	No59	59.02	invaded comparison = grove	"La Copita Research Area, TX, USA"	grassland	subtropical grassland savanna	field study	"6 plots of each community type: a) grassland (native), b) cluster (invaded), c) grove (invaded), d) woodland (invaded). Soil samples (0-10cm, 10-20cm) were taken in July and Jan. Lab N minz incubations for 10days."	NA	Quantified litter C and N%.  No litterpercN or littercn provided for grassland.	"For more details on the plant communities see Archer 1995, Boutton et al 1998"	No59	59.03	invaded comparison = woodland	"La Copita Research Area, TX, USA"	grassland	subtropical grassland savanna	field study	"6 plots of each community type: a) grassland (native), b) cluster (invaded), c) grove (invaded), d) woodland (invaded). Soil samples (0-10cm, 10-20cm) were taken in July and Jan. Lab N minz incubations for 10days."	NA	Quantified litter C and N%.  No litterpercN or littercn provided for grassland.	"For more details on the plant communities see Archer 1995, Boutton et al 1998"	No62	62.01	"invaded comparison = +B, location = Arne"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.02	"invaded comparison = +B, location = AHCP"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.03	"invaded comparison = +B, location = Blackhill"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.04	"invaded comparison = +B, location = Canford"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.05	"invaded comparison = +B, location = Higher Hyde"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.06	"invaded comparison = +B, location = SCH"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.07	"invaded comparison = +B, location = SR"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.08	"invaded comparison = +PS, location = Arne"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.09	"invaded comparison = +PS, location = AHCP"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.1	"invaded comparison = +PS, location = Blackhill"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.11	"invaded comparison = +PS, location = Canford"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.12	"invaded comparison = +PS, location = SCH"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.13	"invaded comparison = +PS, location = SR"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.14	"invaded comparison = +PS, location = Trigon"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.15	"invaded comparison = +PA, location = Arne"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.16	"invaded comparison = +PA, location = AHCP"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.17	"invaded comparison = +PA, location = Blackhill"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.18	"invaded comparison = +PA, location = Canford"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.19	"invaded comparison = +PA, location = Cranborne"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.2	"invaded comparison = +PA, location = Higher Hyde"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.21	"invaded comparison = +PA, location = Trigon"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.22	"invaded comparison = +PA, location = Winfrith"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.23	"invaded comparison = +R, location = Arne"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.24	"invaded comparison = +R, location = AHCP"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.25	"invaded comparison = +R, location = Blackhill"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.26	"invaded comparison = +R, location = Canford"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.27	"invaded comparison = +R, location = Higher Hyde"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.28	"invaded comparison = +R, location = SCH"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.29	"invaded comparison = +R, location = SR"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.3	"invaded comparison = +R, location = Trigon"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.31	"invaded comparison = +U, location = Arne"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.32	"invaded comparison = +U, location = AHCP"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.33	"invaded comparison = +U, location = Blackhill"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.34	"invaded comparison = +U, location = Canford"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.35	"invaded comparison = +U, location = Cranborne"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.36	"invaded comparison = +U, location = Higher Hyde"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No62	62.37	"invaded comparison = +U, location = Winfrith"	"Dorset, England"	shrubland	lowland heath	field study	"Surveyed 9 sites, each with the following vegetation types: a) heath (native), b) +B (invaded), c) +PS (invaded), d) +PA (invaded), e) +R (invaded), f) +U (invaded). Established 10 1m2 quadrats in each area and recorded percent cover of each species as well as took a soil core from the center (21cm depth)"	NA	NA	NA	No71	71.01	burned	"Konza Prairie, KS, USA"	grassland	tallgrass prairie	field study	"2-110m2 sites, one site annually burned in the spring, the other site was unburned (2 observations?). 10 soil samples (15cm depth) under and between-bunches of the 2 dominant species (one native, the other invasive) were taken in 2000 and 2001. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only the samples taken under the plants were included, not between. Insitu buried soil core method for minz.  "	NA	Total C and N content for end of season biomass of each dominant native and invasive species	NA	Consider including between-bunch data71	71.02	unburned	"Konza Prairie, KS, USA"	grassland	tallgrass prairie	field study	"2-110m2 sites, one site annually burned in the spring, the other site was unburned (2 observations?). 10 soil samples (15cm depth) under and between-bunches of the 2 dominant species (one native, the other invasive) were taken in 2000 and 2001. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only the samples taken under the grasses were included, not between. Insitu buried soil core method for minz.  "	NA	Total C and N content for end of season biomass of each dominant native and invasive species	NA	Consider including between-bunch data77	77.01	"invaded comparison = C4 grasses recently invaded by Bromus, native comparison = C4 grasses"	"Canyonlands National Park, UT, USA"	grassland	arid and semi-arid grasslands	field study	"Sampled in the following vegetation types: a) C4 grasses (native), b) C3 grasses (native), c) C4 grasses invaded by Bromus (invaded), d) C3 grasses invaded by Bromus (invaded), and e) invaded/disturbed community dominated by Bromus (invaded).  3 plots per vegetation type (20x30m).  Soil sampled with a 1m core, separted into 6 sections.  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only use data from the top 2 soil depths (0-5cm, 5-10cm) because these are most common across studies.  Soil was sampled at 9 time points: Jan, Mar, May, Jun, Aug, Nov, May, Jul, Sept."	NA	NA	NA	No77	77.02	"invaded comparison = C3 grasses recently invaded by Bromus, native comparison = C3 grasses"	"Canyonlands National Park, UT, USA"	grassland	arid and semi-arid grasslands	field study	"Sampled in the following vegetation types: a) C4 grasses (native), b) C3 grasses (native), c) C4 grasses invaded by Bromus (invaded), d) C3 grasses invaded by Bromus (invaded), and e) invaded/disturbed community dominated by Bromus (invaded).  3 plots per vegetation type (20x30m).  Soil sampled with a 1m core, separted into 6 sections.  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only use data from the top 2 soil depths (0-5cm, 5-10cm) because these are most common across studies.  Soil was sampled at 9 time points: Jan, Mar, May, Jun, Aug, Nov, May, Jul, Sept."	NA	NA	NA	No77	77.03	"invaded comparison = disturbed, native comparison = C4 grasses"	"Canyonlands National Park, UT, USA"	grassland	arid and semi-arid grasslands	field study	"Sampled in the following vegetation types: a) C4 grasses (native), b) C3 grasses (native), c) C4 grasses invaded by Bromus (invaded), d) C3 grasses invaded by Bromus (invaded), and e) invaded/disturbed community dominated by Bromus (invaded).  3 plots per vegetation type (20x30m).  Soil sampled with a 1m core, separted into 6 sections.  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only use data from the top 2 soil depths (0-5cm, 5-10cm) because these are most common across studies.  Soil was sampled at 9 time points: Jan, Mar, May, Jun, Aug, Nov, May, Jul, Sept."	NA	NA	NA	No77	77.04	"invaded comparison = disturbed, native comparison = C3 grasses"	"Canyonlands National Park, UT, USA"	grassland	arid and semi-arid grasslands	field study	"Sampled in the following vegetation types: a) C4 grasses (native), b) C3 grasses (native), c) C4 grasses invaded by Bromus (invaded), d) C3 grasses invaded by Bromus (invaded), and e) invaded/disturbed community dominated by Bromus (invaded).  3 plots per vegetation type (20x30m).  Soil sampled with a 1m core, separted into 6 sections.  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only use data from the top 2 soil depths (0-5cm, 5-10cm) because these are most common across studies.  Soil was sampled at 9 time points: Jan, Mar, May, Jun, Aug, Nov, May, Jul, Sept."	NA	NA	NA	No80	80.01	ecosystDescript = fynbos	"Cape Province, South Africa"	shrubland	lowland fynbos or shrubland	field study	"4 plots were established in each ecosystem type: fynbos invaded and native, strandveld invaded and native. Used buried bag method for N minz with 28day incubation.  Sampled 3 soil cores per plot (10cm depth)."	NA	NA	"Many native species listed and they are listed in alpha order, so I took 1 species name from each genera, and then began at the top of the alphabet to get to 10 native species"	No80	80.01	ecosystDescript = strandveld	"Cape Province, South Africa"	shrubland	lowland fynbos or shrubland	field study	"4 plots were established in each ecosystem type: fynbos invaded and native, strandveld invaded and native. Used buried bag method for N minz with 28day incubation.  Sampled 3 soil cores per plot (10cm depth)."	NA	NA	"Many native species listed and they are listed in alpha order, so I took 1 species name from each genera, and then began at the top of the alphabet to get to 10 native species"	No93	93.01	"ecosystDescript = fynbos, location = Pella"	"Pella, Australia"	shrubland	coastal lowlands	field study	"Soil samples taken from under canopies and adjacent open areas of 4 individuals per native species in lightly and densely invaded areas. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only used data from under canopies (not the adjacent open areas).  Lightly invaded was defined as <5 Acacia/ha.  Densely invaded was defined as >500 Acacia/ha. For the purposes of this meta-anlysis, native = lightly invaded and invaded = densely invaded.  Litter traps under each species (n=3)."	NA	Fully expaned and recently fallen leaves were collected from 4 individuals per species for N% in Nov	"See the following papers for further descriptions of the sites: Witkowski et al 1990, Witkowsk and Mitchell 1987"	Consider including data from area adjacent to canopy93	93.02	"ecosystDescript = strandveld, location = Melkbosstrand"	"Melkbosstrand, Australia"	shrubland	coastal lowlands	field study	"Soil samples taken from under canopies and adjacent open areas of 4 individuals per native species in lightly and densely invaded areas. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only used data from under canopies (not the adjacent open areas).  Lightly invaded was defined as <5 Acacia/ha.  Densely invaded was defined as >500 Acacia/ha. For the purposes of this meta-anlysis, native = lightly invaded and invaded = densely invaded.  Litter traps under each species (n=3)."	NA	Fully expaned and recently fallen leaves were collected from 4 individuals per species for N% in Nov	"See the following papers for further descriptions of the sites: Witkowski et al 1990, Witkowsk and Mitchell 1987"	Consider including data from area adjacent to canopy137	137.01	NA	"Wildman Reserve, Australia"	savannah	savanna	field study	"5 paired blocks of invaded and native area (50m2), each plot with a canopy of Eucalyptus. Study conducted over 2 wet and dry season cycles. Soil samples were collected from 3 replicated quadrats per plot (0-5cm, 5-10cm, 20-30cm). Ion exchange resin was used for soil N availability at 5cm depth for 7-14 day incubations.  Buried bag method was used for Nminz in 3/5 plot pairs (10cm depth, 28 day incubation)."	Measured grass biomass in 3 2m2 quadrats per plot.	Leaf litter from woody plants also collected in quadrats. Litter and leaf N in 3/5 plot pairs in the first year.	NA	No156	156.01	NA	"MA, USA"	forest	mesic hardwood forest	field study	"5 paired plots with 12 subplots each, 2 plots were riparian with full sun, 3 plots in shaded hardwood forest understory"	Harvested biomass in 3 of 5 sites at the same soil sampling subplots; Vegetation survey conducted in 6 subplots with in each site	"N reabsorption on invader, litter chemistry on invader and 4 canopy species"	NA	No157	157.01	NA	"Cheboygan Marsh, MI, USA"	wetland	coastal wetland	field study	"Sampled long and short transects across invaded areas and compared recently invaded with uninvaded patches. Transect data is not presented in a way that is easy to extract, need to email authors. For the comparison of recently invaded and uninvaded patches, selected 7 invasive individuals and centered them around a 1m2 plot with a paired control plot 1-2m away.  Collected 3 soil cores per plot (10cm depth) and pooled them by plot."	NA	NA	NA	"Transect data is not presented in a way that is easy to extract, need to email authors."164	164.01	NA	"Fort Lewis, WA, USA"	grassland	grassland	field study	"Established transects 9m into and out of invaded patches for 18 invaded patches. Sampled soil at 3m intervals (10cm depth) and measured invader biomass (per m2) at soil sampling locations. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, I am excluding 0m point along hte transect and aggregating points at 9, 6, and 3m inside and outside of the invasion. Lab incubation for N minz for 7 days."	NA	NA	NA	No167	167.01	"invaded comparison = Ailanthus, native comparison = Ulmus"	Central Spain	forest	"riparian, post-agriculture forest"	field study	"Selected 4 sites per species. Pooled 2 soil cores (225mm depth) per plot, sampled 4 months.  Used cation exchange resin strips at 5cm depth for 15 days.  14-day lab incubation for N minz.  This study reported both KCl-extractable and resin-extractable inorganic N, both are recorded with a note identifying the difference"	"For the purposes of this meta-analysis, measures of caonpy openness were used to calculate species percent cover where 1-canopy openness = percent cover.  Since site were selected for each species, I assume that there is only plant species in the canopy openness measurement."	"Sencesent leaves from 12-21 individual species were collected, pooled by species, and analyzed for splitterpercN, splittercn"	NA	No167	167.02	"invaded comparison = Robinia, native comparison = Fraxinus"	Central Spain	forest	"riparian, post-agriculture forest"	field study	"Selected 4 sites per species. Pooled 2 soil cores (225mm depth) per plot, sampled 4 months.  Used cation exchange resin strips at 5cm depth for 15 days.  14-day lab incubation for N minz.  This study reported both KCl-extractable and resin-extractable inorganic N, both are recorded with a note identifying the difference"	"For the purposes of this meta-analysis, measures of caonpy openness were used to calculate species percent cover where 1-canopy openness = percent cover.  Since site were selected for each species, I assume that there is only plant species in the canopy openness measurement."	"Sencesent leaves from 12-21 individual species were collected, pooled by species, and analyzed for splitterpercN, splittercn"	NA	No188	188.01	NA	"Vindhyan, India"	forest	tropical dry deciduous forest	field study	"3 locations of each type: a) no invader, b) medium invasive cover, c) high invasive cover. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, native = forest caonpy (FL), and invaded = Lantana canopy, high (LL). High invasive cover was defined as >50%.  Conducted litterbag assays. 3 soil samples (10cm depth) were taken in fall at each location.  Insitu buried bag method."	Invader cover estimated at 12 sublocations with litter traps.  	Litter chemistry on dominant species	NA	May want to include intermediate invasion as a separate observation199	199.01	location = Rocky Point	"Vancouver Island, Canada"	savannah	garry oak savannah	field study	"Invaded and native plots within 2 sites, Rocky Point (n=5) and Bamberton (n=3) (2 observations). 15 soil cores (10cm depth) were taken from each plot and pooled in Feb. Used PRS probes Jan through Jun. Error not provided for monthly inorganic N data.  Inorganic N data is not available for Bamberton site because of high calcium concentrations likely bound a significant portion of the available nutrients. Authors also conducted a greenhouse assay, but do not report the soil inorganic N data."	Evaluated species richness and abundance in 10 quadrats per plot.	NA	NA	Email authors for greenhouse soil inorganic N data and species cover data199	199.02	location = Bamberton	"Vancouver Island, Canada"	savannah	garry oak savannah	field study	"Invaded and native plots within 2 sites, Rocky Point (n=5) and Bamberton (n=3) (2 observations). 15 soil cores (10cm depth) were taken from each plot and pooled in Feb. Used PRS probes Jan through Jun. Error not provided for monthly inorganic N data.  Inorganic N data is not available for Bamberton site because of high calcium concentrations likely bound a significant portion of the available nutrients. Authors also conducted a greenhouse assay, but do not report the soil inorganic N data."	Evaluated species richness and abundance in 10 quadrats per plot.	NA	NA	Email authors for greenhouse soil inorganic N data and species cover data236	236.01	NA	"Yates Millpond, Raleigh, NC, USA"	wetland	forested riparian wetland	field expt removal	"6 pairs of plots were established, half were weeded of the invader. Buried bag method of soil N fluxes with 3 incubations (May, Aug, Feb) in each plot. Biomass was harvested in 2006 and 2007."	NA	Standing biomass N and C% by species and litter	NA	No249	249.01	studyType = field study	"southern IN, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	field study	"Paired plot design, 10 pairs. Pooled 3 soil cores (0-5cm, 5-10cm depth) per plot, collected March, July, Sept.  Lab incubation for N minz for 12-14days."	NA	NA	NA	Email Luke for native species list and cover data249	249.02	studyType = field expt addition	"southern IN, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	field expt addition	"Fully randomized, experimental addition of invader to 10m2 plots in 2005.  All plots planted with a mixture of 12 native grasses, sedges, forbs, allowed natural colonization too. Pooled 3 cores per plot (0-5, 5-15cm) collected in March, June, July, Sept"	NA	NA	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 10. Reference Flory et al 2010 Biological Invasions"	Email Luke for cover data249	249.03	"studyType = greenhouse expt, invaded comparison = Mv, native comparison = Nat"	"southern IN, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	greenhouse expt	"Established 3 plant communities in uninvaded soil: a) Mv (invaded), b) Mv + Nat (invaded), c) Nat (native), and d) unplanted pots (native). Natives composed of 3 functional groups: forbs, grasses, sedges. Pots received N addition treatments factorially. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only the control N level data was used. 15 reps, randomized treatments within blocks. 5 2.5cm diam cores through pot's depth. Lab incubation for Nminz for 12-14 days. "	"Aboveground plant material harvested, sorted by species."	NA	"Forest species from soil orgin are not included in the species.xlsx table, but are a) Juglans nigra, b) Acer negundo, c) Plantanus occidentalis"	No249	249.04	"studyType = greenhouse expt, invaded comparison = Mv + Nat, native comparison = Nat"	"southern IN, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	greenhouse expt	"Established 3 plant communities in uninvaded soil: a) Mv (invaded), b) Mv + Nat (invaded), c) Nat (native), and d) unplanted pots (native). Natives composed of 3 functional groups: forbs, grasses, sedges. Pots received N addition treatments factorially. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only the control N level data was used. 15 reps, randomized treatments within blocks. 5 2.5cm diam cores through pot's depth. Lab incubation for Nminz for 12-14 days. "	"Aboveground plant material harvested, sorted by species."	NA	"Forest species from soil orgin are not included in the species.xlsx table, but are a) Juglans nigra, b) Acer negundo, c) Plantanus occidentalis"	No249	249.05	"studyType = greenhouse expt, invaded comparison = Mv, native comparison = unplanted"	"southern IN, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	greenhouse expt	"Established 3 plant communities in uninvaded soil: a) Mv (invaded), b) Mv + Nat (invaded), c) Nat (native), and d) unplanted pots (native). Natives composed of 3 functional groups: forbs, grasses, sedges. Pots received N addition treatments factorially. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only the control N level data was used. 15 reps, randomized treatments within blocks. 5 2.5cm diam cores through pot's depth. Lab incubation for Nminz for 12-14 days. "	"Aboveground plant material harvested, sorted by species."	NA	"Forest species from soil orgin are not included in the species.xlsx table, but are a) Juglans nigra, b) Acer negundo, c) Plantanus occidentalis"	No249	249.06	"studyType = greenhouse expt, invaded comparison = Mv + Nat, native comparison = unplanted"	"southern IN, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	greenhouse expt	"Established 3 plant communities in uninvaded soil: a) Mv (invaded), b) Mv + Nat (invaded), c) Nat (native), and d) unplanted pots (native). Natives composed of 3 functional groups: forbs, grasses, sedges. Pots received N addition treatments factorially. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, only the control N level data was used. 15 reps, randomized treatments within blocks. 5 2.5cm diam cores through pot's depth. Lab incubation for Nminz for 12-14 days. "	"Aboveground plant material harvested, sorted by species."	NA	"Forest species from soil orgin are not included in the species.xlsx table, but are a) Juglans nigra, b) Acer negundo, c) Plantanus occidentalis"	No327	327.01	native comparison = fynbos	"Riverlands Nature Reserve, Capetown, South Africa"	shrubland	lowland fynbos or shrubland	field study	"3 treatments: a) Acacia thicket (invaded), b) fynbos (native), and c) cleared Acacia (native). 3 plots per treatment, 4 subplots per plot (3m2 centered on dominant proteoid).  Different target species in each plot.  Cleared plot removed Acacias but left behind Acacia leaf litter. Ion exchange resins were installed in the center of each subplot for 30 days; soil samples (7 cm dpeth) were taken in same location.  Before analysis, subplot soil samples were averaged by plot."	NA	NA	NA	No327	327.02	native comparison = cleared Acacia	"Riverlands Nature Reserve, Capetown, South Africa"	shrubland	lowland fynbos or shrubland	field study	"3 treatments: a) Acacia thicket (invaded), b) fynbos (native), and c) cleared Acacia (native). 3 plots per treatment, 4 subplots per plot (3m2 centered on dominant proteoid).  Different target species in each plot.  Cleared plot removed Acacias but left behind Acacia leaf litter. Ion exchange resins were installed in the center of each subplot for 30 days; soil samples (7 cm dpeth) were taken in same location.  Before analysis, subplot soil samples were averaged by plot."	NA	NA	No native species listed because the Acacia was cleared and there was no remaining vegetation	No551	551.01	NA	"Larimer Co. Parks, CO, USA"	grassland	semi-arid ponderosa pine grassland	field study	"4 sites each with a paired native and invaded area, 6 plots per area. 2 plots were harvested in June, July, August for vegetation.  One of the 2 plots harvested at each time point was given a water treatment.  Collected 4 soil samples per plot per day for 3 days, 3 times throughout the growing season. Invasive species was active in June whereas natives were active in June and July.  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, using the no water addition plots, native = PG and invaded = BT, taking the average of ACTIVE and INACTIVE."	NA	NA	NA	No705	705.01	NA	"MD, USA"	forest	deciduous hardwood forest	field study	"Paired plots, sampled 6 sites 1 time in summer"	"Paired plots, sampled 6 sites 3 times during the growing season"	NA	NA	No706	706.01	NA	Zhejiang Province in east China	grassland	reminant grassland areas	field study	"Paired plots, Sampled exotic, native, and intermediate invader densities at 5 sites. 5 plots per site that were pooled for soil analysis."	"Exot = Solidago monoculture, Nat = no Solidago"	NA	"Many native species listed, so listed the first 2 dominant species from each site"	May want to include intermediate invasion as a separate observation707	707.01	NA	"Pinheiro daCruz, Portugal"	dune	dune ecosystem	field study	Plots were 9m2 that were exterior and interior to the invader. Each sample was a composite of 3 cores from different plots	NA	Established a separate plot to evaluate leaf and litter N	"Many species were listed in text, but the percent cover of only 2 native species were measured, so that is the data included in this meta-analysis"	No708	708.01	native comparison = Agropyron	"Central Plains Experimental Range, CO, USA"	grassland	shortgrass steppe	field study	"Sampled plants and soil from a fertilization and irrigation experiment that was conducted in the 1970s; there were 4 treatments and 2 replicate plots per treatment.  For the purposes of this meta-analysis, I will only use the NW treatment because this is the only treatment where the invasive species occurs.  Sampled soils under and between plant species (10cm depth) for 4 plants per species per plot. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, I only used ""under"" not ""between"" samples. 30-day lab incubation for Nminz."	"Plant biomass and cover was estimated at the plot scale (although the soil samples were taken under and between invidual plants).  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, these measurements are not reported because they do not fit with the scale at which soils were sampled."	Aboveground plant tissue %C and %N measures on each plant species using individuals from 6 quadrats x 2 plots.	NA	No708	708.02	native comparison = Stipa	"Central Plains Experimental Range, CO, USA"	grassland	shortgrass steppe	field study	"Sampled plants and soil from a fertilization and irrigation experiment that was conducted in the 1970s; there were 4 treatments and 2 replicate plots per treatment.  For the purposes of this meta-analysis, I will only use the NW treatment because this is the only treatment where the invasive species occurs.  Sampled soils udner and between plant species (10cm depth) for 4 plants per species per plot. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, I only used ""under"" not ""between"" samples. 30-day lab incubation for Nminz."	"Plant biomass and cover was estimated at the plot scale (although the soil samples were taken under and between invidual plants).  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, these measurements are not reported because they do not fit with the scale at which soils were sampled."	Aboveground plant tissue %C and %N measures on each plant species using individuals from 6 quadrats x 2 plots.	NA	No708	708.03	native comparison = Bouteloua	"Central Plains Experimental Range, CO, USA"	grassland	shortgrass steppe	field study	"Sampled plants and soil from a fertilization and irrigation experiment that was conducted in the 1970s; there were 4 treatments and 2 replicate plots per treatment.  For the purposes of this meta-analysis, I will only use the NW treatment because this is the only treatment where the invasive species occurs.  Sampled soils udner and between plant species (10cm depth) for 4 plants per species per plot. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, I only used ""under"" not ""between"" samples. 30-day lab incubation for Nminz."	"Plant biomass and cover was estimated at the plot scale (although the soil samples were taken under and between invidual plants).  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, these measurements are not reported because they do not fit with the scale at which soils were sampled."	Aboveground plant tissue %C and %N measures on each plant species using individuals from 6 quadrats x 2 plots.	NA	No708	708.04	native comparison = Aristida	"Central Plains Experimental Range, CO, USA"	grassland	shortgrass steppe	field study	"Sampled plants and soil from a fertilization and irrigation experiment that was conducted in the 1970s; there were 4 treatments and 2 replicate plots per treatment.  For the purposes of this meta-analysis, I will only use the NW treatment because this is the only treatment where the invasive species occurs.  Sampled soils udner and between plant species (10cm depth) for 4 plants per species per plot. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, I only used ""under"" not ""between"" samples. 30-day lab incubation for Nminz."	"Plant biomass and cover was estimated at the plot scale (although the soil samples were taken under and between invidual plants).  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, these measurements are not reported because they do not fit with the scale at which soils were sampled."	Aboveground plant tissue %C and %N measures on each plant species using individuals from 6 quadrats x 2 plots.	NA	No708	708.05	native comparison = Artemisia	"Central Plains Experimental Range, CO, USA"	grassland	shortgrass steppe	field study	"Sampled plants and soil from a fertilization and irrigation experiment that was conducted in the 1970s; there were 4 treatments and 2 replicate plots per treatment.  For the purposes of this meta-analysis, I will only use the NW treatment because this is the only treatment where the invasive species occurs.  Sampled soils udner and between plant species (10cm depth) for 4 plants per species per plot. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, I only used ""under"" not ""between"" samples. 30-day lab incubation for Nminz."	"Plant biomass and cover was estimated at the plot scale (although the soil samples were taken under and between invidual plants).  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, these measurements are not reported because they do not fit with the scale at which soils were sampled."	Aboveground plant tissue %C and %N measures on each plant species using individuals from 6 quadrats x 2 plots.	NA	No708	708.06	native comparison = Carex	"Central Plains Experimental Range, CO, USA"	grassland	shortgrass steppe	field study	"Sampled plants and soil from a fertilization and irrigation experiment that was conducted in the 1970s; there were 4 treatments and 2 replicate plots per treatment.  For the purposes of this meta-analysis, I will only use the NW treatment because this is the only treatment where the invasive species occurs.  Sampled soils udner and between plant species (10cm depth) for 4 plants per species per plot. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, I only used ""under"" not ""between"" samples. 30-day lab incubation for Nminz."	"Plant biomass and cover was estimated at the plot scale (although the soil samples were taken under and between invidual plants).  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, these measurements are not reported because they do not fit with the scale at which soils were sampled."	Aboveground plant tissue %C and %N measures on each plant species using individuals from 6 quadrats x 2 plots.	NA	No712	712.01	NA	"Great Lakes, MI, USA"	wetland	coastal wetland	field expt addition	"Transplant expt of invasive plant and litter in factorial design in uninvaded marsh (n=10).  All initial plots were clipped before use. Each plot sampled in June and August. Insitu buried bag incubation for nminz. All the significant treatment effects were brought about by the invader litter and not the live plant. For the purpose of this meta-analysis, native = no live, no litter and invaded = live and litter."	NA	NA	"Species listed as ""common"".  Other species were listed, but with no indication of abundance"	No713	713.01	"studyType = greenhouse expt, native comparison = unseeded soil"	"Sewanee, TN, USA"	forest	eastern deciduous forest	greenhouse expt	"Used sterilzed sand and gravel, mixed with minearl soil from uninvaded oak-hickory forests. Compared invader to unseeded soil.  Sampled at time=0, 6 months, 12 months.  Only included data for the last time point."	"Native species listed are the species that were present in the field where the soil was collected.  They were not grown in the greenhouse, so there is no species cover data for these species."	NA	"Native species are listed that cultured the soil, but were not present during the study"	May want to include data from time = 6 months time point too?713	713.02	"studyType = field study, ecosystDescript = mature oak-hickory"	"Sewanee, TN, USA"	forest	mature oak-hickory	field study	Paired plot design. Invaded plot defined as >90% Microstegium. Sample was composed of 10 pooled cores from 0-5cm depth	NA	NA	"Species list was not differentiated for the sites: mature (713.02), early successional (713.03), pine plantation (713.04)"	No713	713.03	"studyType = field study, ecosystDescript = early successional oak-hickory"	"Sewanee, TN, USA"	forest	early successional oak-hickory	field study	Paired plot design. Invaded plot defined as >90% Microstegium. Sample was composed of 10 pooled cores from 0-5cm depth	NA	NA	"Species list was not differentiated for the sites: mature (713.02), early successional (713.03), pine plantation (713.04)"	No713	713.04	"studyType = field study, ecosystDescript = pine plantation"	"Sewanee, TN, USA"	forest	pine plantation	field study	Paired plot design. Invaded plot defined as >90% Microstegium. Sample was composed of 10 pooled cores from 0-5cm depth	NA	NA	"Species list was not differentiated for the sites: mature (713.02), early successional (713.03), pine plantation (713.04)"	No715	715.01	NA	"Sao Jacinto Dunes, Portugal"	dune	coastal sand dune	field study	"Compared longterm invaded (LI), recently invaded (RI) , and non-invaded (NI) sites.  All randomly distributed.  3 soil samples were pooled by plot, collected in the spring for 3 years (10cm depth). Lab nitrification potential assay. 3 litter samples per plot.  For the purpose of this meta-analysis, native = NI and invaded = RI."	NA	NA	No native species listed in text	May want to include longterm invasion as a separate observation716	716.01	NA	northern and western Switzerland	grassland	"grasslands, wetlands, old fields"	field study	"Pooled 5 cores (15cm depth) per plot.  Same plots were used for the biomass harvest and ion exchange resins. In total, there were 14 sites and 3 plots of invaded and native per site."	NA	Sampled 10-20 leaves from invader and 2-3 dominant native species at each site	"Many native species listed, so listed the first species listed from each site (15 sites in total)"	No